Hi there.
This is the Ramona La Rue.
And welcome back.
So, so far, we have seen how we can programmatically read data from the database and also how we can
programmatically insert data into the database.
Right.
That's what we have seen in the previous lecture.
Now, let's see how we can programmatically update existing data in the database.
So we have data in the tables.
We need to see how we can update them.
And for that, we have update queries so which we are going to look at in this particular lecture.
So you may recall that there is this feature in our project called Marking as Kid Friendly.
So a particular bookmark can be marked as kit friendly or it is not kid friendly.
It can be marked as either as kid friendly or not kid friendly.
If it is marked as kid friendly, it means that it can be viewed by kids.
Right?
And so a particular bookmark can be marked as kid friendly or not, and it can be done by only certain
types of users, like the certain types of staff members like Ed or chief Ed.
So when a particular ed or Chief Ed marks a certain bookmark as kid friendly or not, then that information
about that particular user should also be captured.
So that is mainly for bookkeeping purposes because if some inappropriate bookmark is marked as kid friendly,
then we know who that user is and we can question that user why he or she has done that right and maybe
remove some of their privileges if they are not doing their job in a proper way.
So we need to capture that kind of information.
So that's one thing.
So what we need to do is we need to update our update our table for that.
We need to modify that table for that table structure for that.
Now, apart from the kid friendly, there was also another feature that was added called Sharing of
Bookmarks.
You might remember that.
You might recall that bookmarks, certain bookmarks like books and web links can be shared with can
be shared with partner websites.
So and that is also done by staff members like editors or editors.
And when one of those does that for a certain bookmark, then we need to once again capture who that
user is.
So we need to make certain changes in the database in order to capture that information.
And for that, we have these tables here, we have these SQL statements here.
It's called as Ed Table.
So we need to do that.
We need to add certain columns and book web link and also movie, right?
These are the three types of bookmarks and they can be marked as kid friendly.
So there is already a column which we have added called Kid Friendly Status.
Now we need to also add columns to capture the information about the user who is setting it as kid friendly
or who is sharing the bookmark now.
And so for that reason, we are adding going to add two columns in the book table.
So the commander's editor followed by this keyword table.
So those are reserved keywords followed by the table name, which is book.
And we are saying add column.
This is also keywords, reserved keywords and we are saying the name of the column, new column would
be kid friendly marked by.
So it tells who that user was who has moved.
And it is a big end and.
We don't need this country.
And we are saying that this kid friendly marked by is a foreign key and it is referencing the ID and
the user field.
It's essentially a user ID.
And similarly we are also adding another column called Shared by.
So this is for capturing the information about a bookmark that is shared with the partner site.
And once again, it would be a big end.
Unshared shared by is also a foreign key and it also references the ID in the user ID.
So we are essentially adding these two columns, kid friendly mark by and shared by.
And we are also saying that kid friendly magpie should be added after this particular column called
Kid Friendly Status.
So that's how you would say that.
And for shared by we are saying that it needs to be added after this newly added column kid friendly
magpie.
So those are the two columns we are adding and then go after the kid friendly status shared.
I would go after this new, new column and both of them are foreign keys and we are doing the same thing
for web link.
Also we are adding kid friendly magpie and we are adding the shared by columns.
And once again, they are they are foreign keys and in the movie column we are only adding kid friendly
marked by, but we are not adding a shared by column.
That's because movies cannot be shared with that third party site, with the partner site.
So that was the rule.
If you recall, only books and web links can be shared.
So that's what it is.
So let's go ahead and execute these queries.
Now this is the data from the previous.
From the previous lecture.
Let's also delete this data.
Especially for the use of for the bookmarking data because we are going to run this program once again
and this particular table would be would be populated with more, more and more data than bookmarking
the bookmarking tables which we have created in the previous lecture.
So let me just say from.
So this we are doing just because when we run the program once again, it's going to add more.
It's going to add more and more information into these tables.
So we are just cleaning up these tables.
So we just copy these three queries.
We are done.
So we have these tables.
So let me just say in the C book.
So it could show all the, the schema of the table so that you would use this kind of a query.
DSC It means to describe a book.
So as you can see shared by and kid friendly marked by have been added.
And we also said that kid friendly marked by has to be added after kid friendly status so we can see
that it got added here and shared by we said it needs to be added after kid friendly.
So it got added here and the similar changes would have been made in other tables too.
So this is how you would change the schema.
You would add new columns into into the existing tables, which can have some data.
Also, in our case, they already have some data, but we can still change the schema in this way.
Now let's get back to the code.
And this is the view class.
So earlier we have seen how we could this is a code for bookmarking.
Now this is the code for setting.
Good friendly status.
So let's just briefly look at it.
So we are saying that f so this is a frontal lobe here we have our lobe.
So here we are inside a particular we are looking at a particular bookmark and this is being invoked
on a particular user from the launch class.
And here we are saying f the user is of this type editor or chief editor.
Then we need to see if we can set the get friendly status.
And we know that there is this method called E kid friendly eligible which tells whether the bookmark
is in the first place, whether it is kid friendly, eligible or not, and if it is eligible and if
it is if the kid friendly status if you see kid friendly status is an enum, it can be in a in one of
these states approved, rejected or unknown.
So initially it would be an unknown state.
So we are saying if it is an unknown state, then get the decision here.
So this is the class for getting the decision.
And so earlier we had this code which is slightly wrong.
So the randomized function should be like this.
We get the math random decision and if the decision is less than 0.4, it means that it is approved.
But if it is between 0.4 and 0.8, then it is rejected.
So once again, we are using randomized function.
I'm just this is I'm highlighting because earlier we were using this random function many several times,
but then this within this statement.
But now I realized that that was wrong.
One of the students has pointed that out.
So it's going to be random or we only compute it once and we are checking it here using the ternary
operator.
So if you go back.
So here it is.
So if it is equals unknown, we have got the effect.
So we are getting the decision.
And if it is, if it is not equal to unknown, then we are going to set the status set to friendly status.
So it's in the bookmark controller.
So you may recall that the view class is like the user interface.
So we can go here into the controller.
So this is the back end.
So this is a web server.
So this is the first point where a request is received on the web server side.
And then we are invoking the manager and then the manager we had the we were having these steps.
So the bookmark status is being set.
Right here.
This method is invoked with user friendly status and also the bookmark for which we are setting the
status.
So we are just forwarding that information to this method.
And within the method for that bookmark, we are setting the status, what our status has been selected,
approved or rejected.
And we are also marking the user information here and we are passing all of this information to this
new method which I have written called update kid friendly status within the bookmark class.
So this is what here this is some new method that I have written.
So all we are going to do is here we are checking.
So this is a bookmark.
We are fact checking.
If this bookmark here, whether it is by default, we are saying it's movie book.
But if it is an instance of movie, then we are updating this variable.
So we have this variable called table to update, which will be used in our SQL query here.
So first, let's look at the SQL query here.
So this is the query.
So the query and here is the try with resources syntax, just like in the previous lectures.
So we get a connection, we get a statement and here is our query and the query is update query because
we are going to update update the table.
The table can be book, movie or web link.
So that is decided by this.
So we are using an instance of operator here.
So by default it would be movie.
But if the bookmark is an instance of movie, then we are updating this particular variable to movie.
But if it is an instance of weblink, we are setting it to web link so that table to update variable
is used here here.
So the command would be update followed by the table name and the table name is captured would be one
of these three depending on what the bookmark is.
So I hope that is clear.
And we are saying it is followed by set keyword and we are saying get friendly status equal to.
Here.
There is the kid friendly status.
So we are appending a kid friendly status.
And kid friendly status was.
You know, within the bookmark, we were setting the get kid friendly status here in the previous method
here we were setting it as get free kid friendly status.
So we are just using the getter method.
Oh, sorry.
So we are using the getter method and getting the get get friendly status, which is an enum constant.
Right.
And we are invoking the ordinal method which is from the enum class.
So kid friendly status is an enum.
It can be one of these three.
So if it is approved or rejected, if it is approved, it would have an original value of zero.
If it is rejected, it would have an ordinal value of one.
So I hope you remember the enum lectures.
So that's all we are doing here in bookmark dao.
So we are getting the status and in the bookmark manager we are also setting who the user is who has
marked that particular bookmark.
As with a certain kid friendly status.
So that is the user.
So in the bookmark dao, we are once again just getting the who that user is by invoking this getter
method called get it friendly, marked by and we are getting the user ID of that particular user.
So now we have the kid friendly status and we also know the user ID and we are just saying set get kid
friendly status is equal to this one.
So we are building our query in this way by concatenating.
And we are also saying get friendly, marked by you.
So we have a comma.
And this is the second next field.
And we are saying equal to user ID and we are also saying where ID equal to bookmark.
Dot get ID right.
Because we are doing all of this for a particular bookmark.
So this statement has update table name.
Let's assume it is book set it friendly status equal to let's say it is approved.
So it would be the value for that, the corresponding ordinal value and we are saying marked by it,
friendly marked by user ID where ID is equal to that particular ID of the book.
And that can be a book, a movie or web link.
And we are saying statement, dot, execute, update, and we are passing this query.
Just recall that if it is an insert update or a delete, we will use execute update.
If it is an if it is if it is a select query, we would use execute query.
Just recall that.
So that's it.
Update kit friendly status.
Now if we go back to view class, so that's the kid friendly, but then we also have this sharing thing.
So once again it is inside the same F condition.
So if it is an editor or a chief editor.
So once the market is kid friendly, then they also have the option to share that particular bookmark.
But that particular bookmark has to be either a movie or either a book or a web link.
Only then it is shareable.
So there is this interface called Shareable.
You may recall that only book and web link would implement that movie will not implement.
So if the bookmark is a movie, then this this particular condition would fail.
But if it is a book or a web link, it would it would pass because those are two types actually implement
this shareable, shareable interface.
That's for instance, we are seeing instance of shareable.
Theaters interface shareable.
And if and then we are once again getting the shared decision whether it can be shared or not.
And if 1/2 it's a randomized function, if it truly is retained, then we are.
So this since this is the UI, then we are passing the request to the back end to the server and we
are passing user information as well as the book bookmark information to this method called share,
which is in the bookmark controller.
So if you click that, so here is the bookmark controller and it is invoking a similarly named method
called share.
And this is what we have and we are here in this bookmark, we are setting this, we are invoking this
method called set shared by and we are setting the user.
It means that this bookmark is being shared by this particular user.
Right.
And we are once again, this is some information, some example.
This is just from the old code.
Just ignore it for now.
Now we are invoking shared by info method.
So once again we need to update the tables about who who is going to share that information.
Right.
So for instance, so this is the new method that has been added in the bookmark.
So once again, we have the update query, but this time we are updating the shared by column, which
we have added earlier.
And we are saying who that user is.
And once again, we are saying ID is equal to the idea of the bookmark.
And once again, it's just the same update query.
So the table to update could be either a book or a web link.
It cannot be a movie because movies cannot be shared.
And the user ID is we are fetching the user ID in this way.
Bookmark not get it friendly marked by.
Which was set earlier here in the previous method.
Sorry.
This should be shared by.
Not that.
Yeah.
I should be like that.
So we are getting the user who is sharing it and we are building our query, update, query here and
that's it.
Okay.
So let's go back to lunch.
So we are done with that.
So now let's go ahead and run it.
Said so.
It's not easy to read.
So I'm just going to add this.
So if I put a slash G, so it will be printed in this way.
So here we can see that for this particular row, the kid friendly status is zero, which means that
it is approved and it was set by this user with the ID three and it was shared by this user with the
user ID file.
So that's what it is.
So I think it is clear now.
So we have seen how we can update data.
So that's about it.
And if you have any questions, please let me know.
But I hope it is clear enough.
Thank you.
And that's it.
And happy coding.